GLOBAL AI SETUP: one-file installer
GitHub Copilot, Codex (GPT) and Claude Code. Local index first, fewer tokens.

AGENT, READ THIS FIRST
  Read only this header. It ends at the line END OF INSTRUCTIONS. Everything
  below that line is program code and packed file content. Do not read it,
  retype it, summarize it or edit it: one command unpacks it byte for byte.

WHAT IT SETS UP
  1. Global rules, written between markers, in:
       ~/.copilot/copilot-instructions.md   GitHub Copilot CLI and VS Code
       ~/.codex/AGENTS.md                   Codex (GPT)
       ~/.claude/CLAUDE.md                  Claude Code
     Only two marked blocks are written, protected-rules and NO-COMPRESS, and
     the four "Master Repo" wrapper lines are removed. Everything else in each
     file stays byte for byte, including a token-goat block.
  2. Three subagents per client: cavecrew-investigator, cavecrew-builder,
     cavecrew-reviewer. No file names a model version: agents inherit the
     session model, or use an alias that follows new releases.
  3. A session-start hook, ~/.local-index/session_index.py. Inside a git
     repository it refreshes three local indexes in the background (a Rust
     symbol index, a semantic index and a code graph) and prints one
     "local-index:" status line. Outside a repository it prints nothing.
  4. The lx command, the short front-end agents type instead of reading files:
         lx about NAME    lx def NAME    lx callers NAME    lx find "words"
         lx ask KIND:WHAT...   (several questions, one call)    lx refresh
  5. The local index tools:
       - semble 0.6.1 and ast-grep 0.45.3, and graphify 0.9.72 only when no
         graphify is installed already: pinned prebuilt wheels from PyPI, in
         private virtual environments.
       - codanna 0.16.0, the Rust symbol index: one 20 MB file from
         github.com/bartolli/codanna releases. It is an unsigned executable,
         installed only if its SHA-256 matches the value pinned in tools.py.
       - one 33 MB embedding model from huggingface.co, fetched once.
     After that, nothing here uses the network.
  6. Optional, and only when --token-goat is given: token-goat 2.9.30 from the
     npm registry. It needs Node.js 22.16 or newer and is about 350 MB
     installed. Only that package is pinned: npm picks its dependencies on
     the day, and some of them run install scripts. token-goat's own installer
     then writes, for each client folder that exists (~/.claude, ~/.codex,
     ~/.copilot: all three once this installer has run, so name one with
     --client on a later run):
       - its hooks, and a routing block in the client's rules file
       - Claude Code: also a skill, ~/.claude/skills/token-goat
       - Codex: also trust entries in ~/.codex/config.toml, so its hooks run
         without the /hooks approval
       - Copilot: also an MCP server entry in ~/.copilot/mcp-config.json
     In Claude Code the hooks run on every Read, Grep, Glob, Write, Bash, web,
     skill, subagent and MCP tool call, and on session and prompt events.
     They may shorten what a call returns, replace text they take for a
     secret with a redaction marker, and refuse a read of lines already read. token-goat is under the PolyForm Noncommercial licence: do not add
     this flag on a machine used for commercial work.

STEPS
  1. Check for Python 3.10 or newer and for git:
         python --version
         git --version
     On Windows, use "py -3" wherever "python" is not found.
  2. Step 3 downloads everything listed in item 5. If this machine has a
     policy about installing software, confirm with its owner first, or add
     --no-tools: the rules, agents, hook and lx still install, and lx answers
     from whichever index tools the machine already has.
  3. From the folder that holds this file, run ONE of:
         python INSTALL.txt                      everything, all three clients
         python INSTALL.txt --client copilot     one client: copilot, codex or claude
         python INSTALL.txt --no-tools           no downloads
         python INSTALL.txt --dry-run            show what would change, write nothing
     Add --token-goat to any of the first two only if the owner asked for
     item 6. With --dry-run it only names that step.
  4. Read the summary it prints. A line starting FAILED, MISSING, REFUSED or
     ACTION needs attention: report it to the owner word for word. Do not work
     around a FAILED download by fetching the package from anywhere else.
  5. Tell the owner the three things only they can do:
       - restart each client, so the new agents and hooks load
       - Codex: open /hooks once and trust the two new session-start entries
       - VS Code Copilot: reload the window
  6. Prove it works. In a new terminal, inside any git repository:
         lx refresh
     It prints one line starting "local-index:". Then, with a function name
     from that repository:
         lx about SOME_FUNCTION
         lx find --hybrid "entry point"
         lx ask callers:SOME_FUNCTION "find:entry point"

WHAT IT NEVER DOES
  No model and no remote index sees repository content. No PATH entry and no
  system setting is changed. No existing rule, skill, hook or MCP server is
  removed. Every file it changes is first copied to
  ~/.local-index/backups/<timestamp>/. The one exception is item 6: token-goat
  edits the clients' files itself and keeps its own .bak copies beside them.

UNDO
  Copy the files back from ~/.local-index/backups/<timestamp>/, delete the
  cavecrew-* files from each client's agents folder, and remove the
  session_index.py entries from the hook files. Item 6 has its own undo:
      token-goat uninstall
      token-goat uninstall --codex
      token-goat uninstall --copilot
      npm uninstall -g token-goat

The files unpack to ~/global-ai-setup (change with --dir). Run it again at any
time: every step replaces only what it owns.

END OF INSTRUCTIONS
